and there was a great outcry of the
and there was a great outcry of the people and their wives against their
people and their wives against their
people and their wives against their Jewish brethren we our sons and our
Jewish brethren we our sons and our
Jewish brethren we our sons and our daughters are many therefore let us get
daughters are many therefore let us get
daughters are many therefore let us get grain that we may eat and live
grain that we may eat and live
grain that we may eat and live we have mortgaged our lands and
we have mortgaged our lands and
we have mortgaged our lands and vineyards and houses that we might buy
vineyards and houses that we might buy
vineyards and houses that we might buy grain because of the famine we have
grain because of the famine we have
grain because of the famine we have borrowed money for the king's tax on our
borrowed money for the king's tax on our
borrowed money for the king's tax on our lands and vineyards yet now our flesh is
lands and vineyards yet now our flesh is
lands and vineyards yet now our flesh is as the flesh of our brethren our
as the flesh of our brethren our
as the flesh of our brethren our children as their children and indeed we
children as their children and indeed we
children as their children and indeed we are forcing our sons and daughters to be
are forcing our sons and daughters to be
are forcing our sons and daughters to be slaves and some of our daughters have
slaves and some of our daughters have
slaves and some of our daughters have been brought into slavery it is not in
been brought into slavery it is not in
been brought into slavery it is not in our power to redeem them for other men
our power to redeem them for other men
our power to redeem them for other men have our lands and vineyards and I
have our lands and vineyards and I
have our lands and vineyards and I became very angry when I heard their
became very angry when I heard their
became very angry when I heard their outcry and these words after serious
outcry and these words after serious
outcry and these words after serious thought i rebuked the nobles and brewers
thought i rebuked the nobles and brewers
thought i rebuked the nobles and brewers and said to them each of you is exacting
and said to them each of you is exacting
and said to them each of you is exacting usury from his brother so I called a
usury from his brother so I called a
usury from his brother so I called a great assembly against them and I said
great assembly against them and I said
great assembly against them and I said to them according to our ability we have
to them according to our ability we have
to them according to our ability we have redeemed our jurist brethren who were
redeemed our jurist brethren who were
redeemed our jurist brethren who were sold to the nation's now indeed will you
sold to the nation's now indeed will you
sold to the nation's now indeed will you even sell your brethren or should they
even sell your brethren or should they
even sell your brethren or should they be sold to us then they were silenced
be sold to us then they were silenced
be sold to us then they were silenced and found nothing to say then I said
and found nothing to say then I said
and found nothing to say then I said what you are doing is not good
what you are doing is not good
what you are doing is not good should you not walk in the fear of our
should you not walk in the fear of our
should you not walk in the fear of our God because of the reproach of the
God because of the reproach of the
God because of the reproach of the nation's our enemies
nation's our enemies
nation's our enemies I also with my brethren and my servants
I also with my brethren and my servants
I also with my brethren and my servants and lending them money and grain please
and lending them money and grain please
and lending them money and grain please let us stop this usury restore now to
let us stop this usury restore now to
let us stop this usury restore now to them even this day their lands their
them even this day their lands their
them even this day their lands their vineyards their olive groves and their
vineyards their olive groves and their
vineyards their olive groves and their houses also a hundredth of the money and
houses also a hundredth of the money and
houses also a hundredth of the money and the grain the new wine and the oil that
the grain the new wine and the oil that
the grain the new wine and the oil that you have charged them
you have charged them
you have charged them so they said we will restore it and
so they said we will restore it and
so they said we will restore it and we'll require nothing from them we will
we'll require nothing from them we will
we'll require nothing from them we will do as you say then I called the priests
do as you say then I called the priests
do as you say then I called the priests and required an oath from them that they
and required an oath from them that they
and required an oath from them that they would do according to this promise then
would do according to this promise then
would do according to this promise then I shook out the fold of my garment and
I shook out the fold of my garment and
I shook out the fold of my garment and said
said
said so may God shake out each man from his
so may God shake out each man from his
so may God shake out each man from his house and from his property who does not
house and from his property who does not
house and from his property who does not perform this promise even thus may he be
perform this promise even thus may he be
perform this promise even thus may he be shaken out and emptied
and all the assembly said and praise the
and all the assembly said and praise the Lord
Lord
Lord then the people did according to this
then the people did according to this
then the people did according to this promise moreover from the time that I
promise moreover from the time that I
promise moreover from the time that I was appointed to be their governor in
was appointed to be their governor in
was appointed to be their governor in the land of Judah from the 20th year
the land of Judah from the 20th year
the land of Judah from the 20th year until the 32nd year of King Artaxerxes
until the 32nd year of King Artaxerxes
until the 32nd year of King Artaxerxes twelve years neither I nor my brothers
twelve years neither I nor my brothers
twelve years neither I nor my brothers ate the governor's provisions but the
ate the governor's provisions but the
ate the governor's provisions but the former governors were before me laid
former governors were before me laid
former governors were before me laid burdens on the people and took from them
burdens on the people and took from them
burdens on the people and took from them bread and wine besides forty shekels of
bread and wine besides forty shekels of
bread and wine besides forty shekels of silver yes even their servants bore rule
silver yes even their servants bore rule
silver yes even their servants bore rule over the people but I did not do so
over the people but I did not do so
over the people but I did not do so because of the fear of God indeed I also
because of the fear of God indeed I also
because of the fear of God indeed I also continued the work on this wall and we
continued the work on this wall and we
continued the work on this wall and we did not buy any land all my servants
did not buy any land all my servants
did not buy any land all my servants were gathered there for the work and at
were gathered there for the work and at
were gathered there for the work and at my table were 150 Jews and rulers
my table were 150 Jews and rulers
my table were 150 Jews and rulers besides those who came to us from the
besides those who came to us from the
besides those who came to us from the nations around us now that which was
nations around us now that which was
nations around us now that which was prepared daily was one ox and six choice
prepared daily was one ox and six choice
prepared daily was one ox and six choice sheep also fowl were prepared for me
sheep also fowl were prepared for me
sheep also fowl were prepared for me and once every 10 days an abundance of
and once every 10 days an abundance of
and once every 10 days an abundance of all kinds of wine yet in spite of this I
all kinds of wine yet in spite of this I
all kinds of wine yet in spite of this I did not demand the governor's provisions
did not demand the governor's provisions
did not demand the governor's provisions because the bondage was heavy on these
because the bondage was heavy on these
because the bondage was heavy on these people remember me my God for good
people remember me my God for good
people remember me my God for good according to all that I have done for
according to all that I have done for
according to all that I have done for this people